## Hackathons, Hackathon Culture, Startups, and Future of Technology
Let me preface all of this with I really like going to hackathons. I love coding, I love being surrounded by other people who love coding, and above all else I love doing awesome things with awesome people. Hackathons sucessfully do all these things for me, but as with all things you care about a lot, it enables you to see through the first layer, and with enough objectivity, allows you to really critique it.

In my opinion, underlying hackathons, and really everything in the title, is this fundamental philosophy that really drives a lot of what we do. I think this philosophy is summed up very eloquently by the expression: "Fuck it, ship it". If yoy haven't seen "The Birth and Death of Javascript" by <insert name here> I'd highly recomend you check it out, it's a very insightful talk and inspirtional to a lot of what I'm writing about today.

### Hackathons
There really isn't much interesting stuff you can do in 36 hours. By interesting I mean something that you look at it, and you have absolutely no idea how it is done. Any fairly experience programmer should be able to look at most projects and estblish where they would start and roughly what they would need to do it. This isn't to degrade the work of the people making a product, just because you have an idea where you'd start and how you would do it dosen't imply that you would or even could do it, it just implies that you understand it on a level beyond just the forward facing things. You aren't just an average user of course, you're a developer and this type of stuff should be expected.

Hackathons can and do produce great products, products that have gone on to be very sucessfu start ups even, but never anything fundamentally game changing. 36 hours is simply enough time. To pull my favourite example as noted in "The Birth and Death of Javascript", fantastic languages like Clojure took over 2 years to design and make, of which over a year was spent just thinking, not a single line of code wrote, versus Javascript, which took 2 weeks to make, a language that despite it's universality, is widely considered as bad and is the only language I know of that has aspects that are objectivly bad, should never be used, and goes beyond the level of bad style arguments.

More fundamental to this premise is that 36 hours is not enough time for an idea to evolve. Very rarly does the final product very closely reflect the initial idea. Facebook started as an over glorified version of hot or not. Without the time for an idea to evolve I think that hackathons do less to reflect the talent of the team and do more to reflect the quality of the idea in the first place. Which is why I fundamentally feel that the winner of a hackathon is to some extent random. It's all about how good your idea is and if the judges like it, on that premise you could disregard the development stage all together and just sell your idea and have a similar outcome. This is not to degrade the actual work of the development, you of course can't win a hackathon if you don't have the talent to develop; however the ability to development should be presumed, hot hoped for, which leaves the idea as the fundamental stumbling block.